# New Project: FollowFox

The newest project I've been developing is a CRM for network marketing and multi level marketing professionals. In the network marketing industry, following up is considered one of the keys to success. After all, if you don't follow up with your prospects you're probably not going to sell much. The problem is, CRMs are either too bulky or too expensive for new marketers to get into. This is where [FollowFox](https://followfox.com) comes in. It's a CRM designed specifically to help users with their followups (and therefore increase conversions), and it's priced at a point that's easy to justify and try.

From a development standpoint, it's been a lot of fun and fairly challenging. It's a responsive site and follows some familiar design patterns - slide out mobile menu, persistent left-placed menu on tablets. While apps are appropriate in certain cases, it made good sense to make this site completely web based and provide a consistent experience across all devices. Doing so allows me to push updates and features regularly to everyone on every device, without the many worries of app development - fragmentation, approval, lack of users updating, ratings, etc. It's an interesting feeling when I visit large company's sites and wish they focused on a great mobile experience like I've tried to do.

I write lots of unit tests for my projects, and FollowFox is no exception. It's tested very thoroughly. In this day in age I wouldn't have confidence releasing a project to the wild if it wasn't tested and I don't think there's any excuse not to write them. And, like most of my projects, I use open source to help development along with proven, tested code. I usually try to contribute in return, and I've already got plans for a couple of new plugins that should help the community.

I've developed this CRM alongside professional network marketers to ensure I've created a product that's useful and easy to use. One of the main goals of this program is to focus on doing a few things extremely well - improving followup rates and providing an easy and efficient way to do so.